---
layout: default
title: Time-based XOR Pad encryption
---
# Half-encrypted plaintext with XOR
This puzzler supplied a base64-encoded, encrypted PDF as
well as the ruby script used to encrypt it.

This is an annotated version of the encryption script.

{% highlight ruby %}
#! /usr/bin/env ruby

# Get a key (32-bit Unix timestamp)
key = Time.now.to_i & 0xffffffff


# Read in from STDIN or the name of the first file on the command line
ptext = ARGF.read.bytes

# Pad the plaintext by adding 0s to alight to a block boundary.
# Then, set the last byte of the block to the number of 0s added.
# This is a common padding scheme.
ptext = ptext + ([0] * (3 - (ptext.length % 4))) + [(4 - (ptext.length % 4))]

# Build the pad to use for encryption (can also be used for decryption)
pad = ""
while pad.length < ptext.length do
  # Chain new data ont pad, built by doing weird stuff to the key
  pad = pad + [(key >> 24),
               ((key >> 16) & 0xff),
               ((key >> 8) & 0xff),
               (key & 0xff)].pack('c*')
  # Mutate the key to a new value for the next 32 bits
  # This step is made-up stuff, not real crypto
  key = (key * 467) % 0x100000000
end

# XOR each byte of the plaintext with the corresponding byte of the pad and print
print ptext.zip(pad.bytes).map{|p,k| p^k}.pack('c*')

{% endhighlight %}

Essentially, the current Unix time is used as a seed to build a pad,
then the plaintext is XOR-ed with the pad.

To reverse this encryption, we just need to recover the original time, and run
it through the same pad-building. Then, XOR-ing the ciphertext with the
pad will yield the plaintext.

The following is a brute-force script. It starts with a time a few hours
before the puzzler was created (just to make sure it finishes quickly).

{% highlight ruby %}
#! /usr/bin/env ruby

require 'base64'

# Regex that matches a flag
regex = /iasg{[a-z_]*}/

# Start guessing within the week of the puzzler being posted
start_key = Time.new(2017, 2, 28, 15).to_i & 0xffffffff
guess_key = start_key

# Load and un-base64 ciphertext
# Ignore the padding - we'll see the flag anyway
ciphertext = Base64.decode64(ARGF.read).bytes

while true do
  # Increment the brute-force key
  guess_key = guess_key + 1

  # Use the current guess key
  key = guess_key

  # Build the pad, copied from encrypter
  pad = ""
  while pad.length < ciphertext.length do
    pad = pad + [(key >> 24),
                 ((key >> 16) & 0xff),
                 ((key >> 8) & 0xff),
                 (key & 0xff)].pack('c*')
    key = (key * 467) % 0x100000000
  end

  # XOR with the pad (copied from encrypter)
  plaintext = ciphertext.zip(pad.bytes).map{|p,k| p^k}.pack('c*')

  match = regex.match(plaintext)

  if match
    puts "Found match! #{match[0]}"
    puts "Key was #{guess_key}. Time: #{Time.at(guess_key)}"
    break
  elsif (guess_key - start_key) % 100 == 0
    puts "No luck yet (#{guess_key - start_key} tries)"
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}
