---
title: Hex and Base64 Encoding Puzzler
layout: default
---
# Hex and Base64 Encoding Puzzler
This puzzler focused on two forms of encoding for
arbitrary binary data: Hex encoding and Base64.

The supplied file was hex-encoded. Decoding it
yielded three 16-byte chunks. The first two chunks
were ASCII consisting of Base64-encoded text - the
first 2/3 of the flag.

The third chunk, after decoding the hex, was not ASCII
but rather binary garbage. Solving this part
was the hardest. The third part of the flag could be found
by XOR-ing the first two *encoded* parts with the
third part. 

There was a small hint: the last byte was
a newline. Most Unix text files end with a newline, and
parts 1 and 2 end with the same character ('=').
This means that the last character of the third
part is unchanged by the XOR operation.

# Tips and Techniques
The supporting-files tarball has the creation script
and a solve script which show several different
techniques for working on this sort of challenge.

## Shell Utilities
### Head and Tail
The shell contains a number of utilities that cover some of the basic
operations of text or binary files. `head` and `tail` are very useful
for splitting files. The `create.sh` script uses `head` and `tail`
for this purpose.

`head -c 10 flag.txt` : Select the first 10 characters of the file  
`tail -c +22 flag.txt` : Biginning with the 11th character, select the rest 
of the file  
`tail -c +11 flag.txt | head -c 11` : Combining the first two, this selects
11 characters from the file, beginning with the 11th character.

The normal use for head and tail is of course separating based on lines.
Replacing the `-c` flag with `-n` causes the utilities to work on 
lines, rather than characters.

### xxd
`xxd` without any arguments makes a nice hex dump of a file, showing
offsets, formatted hex, and ASCII. However, it can also
be used encode and decode plain hex dumps.

`xxd -p file` simply creates a plain hex encoding of the file  
`xxd -r -p file.hex` decodes plain hex  
`xxd -p file | xxd -r -p` encodes then decodes the file - full cycle

### Misc. Tools
There are other tools for various encodings. `base64` is used in this puzzler.
`rot13` and `caesar` show up from time to time, to perform Caesar
ciphers.


## Scripting language
While using shell utilities is a quick and basic way to take a look
at encoded text, it lacks power and customizability. At that point, it becomes
necessary to drop to a real scripting language.

The `create.sh` script is a good example of this. While most of the operations
were done using shell utilities, there isn't a good way to XOR two strings
in a shell, so that part is kicked off to a Ruby script. Additionally, while
it is possible, some operations are fairly arcane in the shell.
For example, array slicing is much nicer than splitting with head and tail.

### Scripting Language Tricks
The `solve.rb` script was written entirely in Ruby. It is fairly easy to read,
but these are some of the tricks used in the script.

#### Decoding Hex
`hex.scan(/../).map{|c| c.hex}`
Ruby doesn't have a standard function to encode or decode hex, so decoding the
initial file requires scanning two chars at a time and decoding those two
chars as a hexadecimal number. This yields an array of numbers, which is
the byte array representing the decoded file.

Other languages have convenience functions to make hex encoding and
decoding very easy.

#### Splitting files
Once the file is represented as either a char array or a byte array (in
the case of `solve.rb`, it is a byte array), array slicing
makes splitting it into parts very easy.

`
p1 = puzzler[0..15]
p2 = puzzler[16..31]
p3 = puzzler[32..47]
`

Most languages support array slicing (or string slicing) of some sort.

#### Base64 and other encodings
This is just a matter of using the right language features/libraries
for the encoding in question. Base64 is very easy in Ruby, and since
it is ubiquitous, most languages should support it as well.

`Base64.decode64(str)`


#### Zipping and Mapping
`map` and `zip` are two higher-order functions common in high-level languages.

The `map` operation is used to convert an array by performing the
same operation on every element of the array. For example,
it could be used to add 1 to every number in an array of ints.

`[1, 2, 3].map{|e| e + 1}` yields the array `[2, 3, 4]`

The `zip` operation takes two arrays of equal length "zips" them together,
yielding an array of pairs.

`[1, 2, 3].zip([4, 5, 6])` produces `[[1, 4], [2, 5], [3, 6]]`.

The general form of "zipping" arrays can be extended beyond two arrays
yielding pairs to three arrays yielding triples, up to any number
of arrays yielding N-tuples.

Combining "zipping" and "mapping" is how XOR-ing one or more strings
together is done.

`plain3 = p3.zip(p1, p2).map{|b1, b2, b3| b1 ^ b2 ^ b3}.pack('C*')`

This takes the p3 array, zips it with p1 and p2 to get an array
of triples. It will iterate through the array of triples, XORing
all three bytes together to build a final array of bytes.

`pack('C*')` is just Ruby magic to turn a byte array into a string.

All of these operations are possible in Python, and probably other
languages as well.

### Interactivity
Interactivity isn't just for the shell. Ruby (and Python) have interactive
interpreters available. You can test it out by running `irb` and then
trying out the solve.rb script one line at a time - or even breaking
the larger one-liners into multiple commands to see
how these basic data-manipulation methods can be used.

## Other Tools
[CyberChef](https://gchq.github.io/CyberChef/) is a tool made for solving
this sort of challenge. It has blocks for most of these operations (encoding,
hex, string XOR...). It also gives immediate feedback as the recipe is
modified.
