---
title: Hidden Compressed File
layout: default
---
# Hidden Compressed File
This puzzler contained a zip file appended to the bottom of a PNG.
the zip file contained a mistagged bzipped file, which contained a mistagged gzip file, which contained the flag.

## Walkthrough
- Running Foremost on the file separates the file into the visible PNG and a zip file.

- Unzipping the zip file gives us a file called folder.jpeg. Trying to view this jpeg results in an error message.

- Running file on the jpeg reveals that this is not a jpeg at all, but a bzipped archive.

- Renaming the file to folder.bz and running xdg-open on it allows us to open and successfully unzip the file.

- Inside folder.bz was a file called folder. running file on it again reveals this one is a gzipped archive.

- Running tar -xzf folder unzips THAT file, giving us the readable file flag (and a zip file I forgot I put in there)


## Commands Used
Foremost is a program that can be used to find files hidden within other files. 
By calling foremost filename, it will scan the file and make an output folder, containing the separated files.
Foremost is installed by default on kali linux, but if you are using another distro you can install it by running:

sudo apt-get install foremost

(replace apt-get with your distro's package manager if you aren't running a debian based version)
file filename tells you what filetype a file is. useful for analyzing files with no file extension or the incorrect extension.

xdg-open opens a file from a terminal as if you double clicked on it. 

tar -xzf filename.gz is called to unzip the .gz file. xzf stands for xtract ze file. not really, but a good pneumonic nonetheless. 


