---
layout: post
title:  "Job Opening: Security Analyst Apprentice" 
date:   2016-03-01 14:22:05 
categories: jobs
excerpt: >
   Security Analyst Apprentice - Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, IA 
---
#Security Analyst Apprentice#

##Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, IA##

 

**Company:**                      Meredith Corporation is a vibrant company with a creative culture that favors an
entrepreneurial style and rewards excellent achievement. The Company seeks employees 
who embody and live values such as integrity, creativity, courage, initiative, energy, 
teamwork and respect for others. 
Meredith is the leading media and marketing company serving American women. Meredith’s 
National Media Group reaches 100 million unduplicated women every month, including 60 
percent of U.S. Millennial women, through well-known brands such as Better Homes and 
Gardens, Allrecipes, Parents and SHAPE. Meredith’s Local Media Group includes 17 owned 
or operated television stations—with seven in the nation’s Top 25 markets—reaching 11 
percent of U.S. households. Meredith Xcelerated Marketing develops and delivers custom 
content and customer relationship marketing programs for many of the world's top brands, 
including Kraft, Lowe's and NBC Universal.


**Department:**        IT Security




**Job Summary:**               The Security Analyst Apprentice is a member of the Meredith Corporate IT Security team.
The position assists with security operations, including security event monitoring;
vulnerability scanning and analysis; penetration testing; threat detection and prevention; risk 
assessment; compliance operations; other security practices; and special projects as 
assigned.




**Job Requirements:**                 The Information Security Analyst will identify\monitor information security threats and daily operations; participate in incident response\remediation; and promote risk management activities to protect the State of Iowa information technology assets. 




**Education:**   Sophomore, junior or senior student working toward a Bachelor’s degree in Information Assurance/ Cybersecurity.



  **Preferred knowledge, skills and abilities:**


  *       Knowledge of IDS/IPS, anti-virus, web content filtering, vulnerability 
          scanners and various other security solutions

  *       Knowledge of various scripting and/or programming languages

  *       Knowledge of various application development life cycle methodologies

  *       Ability to identify security attack vectors, assess risk and provide mitigation recommendations

  *       Knowledge of various technology platforms, including cloud services
  
  *       Understanding of web architecture concepts, internet technologies and trends
  
  *       Strong verbal and written communication skills in order to interact effectively 
          at all levels of the organization
  
  *       Self-motivated and passionate about continuous improvement of security and operational practices
  
  *       Problem-solving skills
  
  *       Good decision-making skills
  
  
**Contact:**  

  Lauren Burt,


  lauren.burt@meredith.com
  
  
  515-284-3125
